<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

## sankey

Creates a network visualization.

### Parameters

- `el` **([string][1] | [HTMLElement][2])** The selector or HTML element for the SVG.
- `params` **[Object][3]** Parameters for the visualization.

  - `params.data` **[Array][4]** array of objects.
  - `params.width` **[number][5]?** width of the SVG.
  - `params.height` **[number][5]?** height of the SVG.
  - `params.categories` **[Object][3]?** object of accessors for each category
  - `params.size` **([string][1] | [Function][6])?** size accessor
  - `params.text` **([string][1] | [Function][6])?** text accessor (defaults to "key") (optional, default `"key"`)
  - `params.labelWidth` **[number][5]?** width of the label area
  - `params.gap` **[number][5]?** total gap between categories as a percentage of the height
  - `params.d3` **[Object][3]** D3 instance to use. (optional, default `window.d3`)

Returns **[Graph][7]** Object containing D3.js selections for nodes and links.

## Graph

Define the returned graph

Type: [Object][3]

### Properties

- `nodes` **[Object][3]** D3.js selection for nodes, allowing manipulation of node elements.
- `links` **[Object][3]** D3.js selection for links, enabling styling and interaction with link elements.
- `texts` **[Object][3]** D3.js selection for texts, used for updating or styling text labels on nodes.
- `labels` **[Object][3]** D3.js selection for labels, representing category names, useful for positioning and styling.
- `nodeData` **[Array][4]** Array of node data, each object contains:

  - `nodeData.cat` **[string][1]** Row name. From keys of `categories`
  - `nodeData.key` **[string][1]** Box label. The value in the category
  - `nodeData.group` **[Object][3]** Data rows for this box
  - `nodeData.size` **[number][5]** Box size. Sum of the `size` accessor on `nodeData.group`
  - `nodeData.range` **[Array][4]** Box X position as \[start, end] with values between 0 and 1
  - `nodeData.width` **[number][5]** Box width in pixels when rendered

- `linkData` **[Array][4]** Array of link data, each object contains:

  - `linkData.source` **[Object][3]** Source node object.
  - `linkData.target` **[Object][3]** Target node object.
  - `linkData.group` **[Array][4]** Data rows for this link, for this source AND target combination
  - `linkData.size` **[number][5]** Link size. Sum of the `size` accessor on `linkData.group`
  - `linkData.sourceRange` **[Array][4]** Link top position as \[start, end] with values between 0 and 1
  - `linkData.targetRange` **[Array][4]** Link bottom position as \[start, end] with values between 0 and 1

[1]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String
[2]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTML/Element
[3]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object
[4]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array
[5]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number
[6]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/function
[7]: #graph
